## Project Reflections

### Summary
This project has been much bigger than I initially anticipated. We set out to build a habit tracking app. In the beginning we planned to build for Android devices with C++ and possibly port to Apple if we had time. We had some shakeup to our group though and we ended up without anyone that had an android. So we moved over to just developing for iPhone. That turned out to be somewhat of a nightmare. We decided to move away from C++ to Swift, as we would need to code in SwiftUI for the UI anyway. It was not too much trouble to code the backend stuff in swift. Swift is not too bad its pretty straight forward and a kinda neat language. SwiftUI though is where it starts to get frustrating. There is shockingly little resources available to learn SwiftUI on the web. Even Apples documentation on their website is largely out of date in places. Eventually though I got the hang of it. Looking back on the app, there really was not much challenge to building the back-end of the app. We definitely wanted to do more in that area, but building the UI took up so much more of our time. The finished product is good I beleive though it could use a lot more refinement. In making the app we looked at a lot of other habit tracking apps that have been made before, to see what is good and works in them, and we tried to improve on them and make them our own in the project. We learned a lot looking at competing app habit tracking apps. Like that it seems to be a pretty niche market. There are maybe 2-3 popular existing habit trackers that have over a hundred thousand reviews. And in the end I beleive that we may have an at least on-par app if not better in many ways to a lot of the apps out there.

### Challenges
- SwiftUI. Learning to program with SwiftUI on the fly was a struggle. You end up looking up how to do something you want to add to your app, you find the documentation for it and implement it, just for XCode to popup an error and tell you that the code was removed in the latest update.

- UI Creation. Creating the UI or the iPhone app in general, was the hardest challenge we faced in the project. There is a whole lot more to the process than we knew when we started.

- XCode. XCode as an IDE has a lot of issues. My biggest gripe with it is its error detection. It is not very good at telling you what is wrong with your code. Most of the time it just tells you that there is an error and gives you no information on what the error is or even where it is. Which is pretty rough when you are trying to learn a new language. Sometimes it just decides to stop detecting errors all together and you have to restart it to get it to work again. I have had multiple issues where I wrote an error and it could not detect that there was an error, so it would try to run the always on preview which would crash xcode. You then have to re-open xcode and try to find the error before it tries to run the preview again. However, the simulator for XCode is very good. It creates a whole virtual iPhone with whatever os version or device you want to test on, and it runs very smoothly.

- Time. We had a lot of time constraints on this project. We had to learn a new language, a new IDE, and a new framework. We had some struggle with git and github as well. All of this consumed a lot of time. And our group being just the two of us made the whole process pretty difficult.

### Lessons Learned
We learned a whole lot making our app. One of my biggest take-aways from this process has been the importance of planning, something that we did not do very well. We had a general idea of what we wanted, but no concrete plan before we started building. We should have built out a whole wireframe for the app initially before attempting to build. My thought process at the time was that I would lay out the ground-work for the app and once we have that move on to the UI. This was a mistake that kept on coming back to bite us. This meant that we had to keep backtracking to replace what we already had or change it to fit the new UI. And because we didnt lay out every feature we wanted, it meant that we had to keep going back to the ground work and changing that. It added on to our time crunch. So one of the biggest lessons I learned was about how important it is to properly lay out your plan before you start building. I think a lot of our struggles were due to this.

We also learned a lot about app development making our habit tracking app. This is one of the biggest projects we have had to work on before in app development. We had to do a lot of our own research on best practices and what is required to build a successful app. We had to look at a lot of other apps to see what works and what does not. We learned a lot about the app development process and what is required to make a successful app.

### Conclusion
In the end we are happy with the app we built. It is not perfect, but it is a good start. I think that we could have done a lot more with it if we had more time and resources. There are a lot more plans and features that we had on our list of what we had in mind for it. But we are happy with what we have. We learned a lot making the app and we are happy with the result.